hey everyone this is Stefan James from
project life mastery to day I want to
share with you how I'm investing right
now
amid the coronavirus panic as of right
now the coronavirus has been labeled as
a pandemic and it's been affecting the
global economy it's been affecting
Europe and Canada United States
everywhere and markets have been
crashing people have been selling off
stocks certain industries and sectors
and stocks have been plummeting in value
and there's a lot of fear and panic
right now because people believe that
it's going to get worse before it gets
better
and during this time people don't quite
know what's gonna happen it's still so
early especially in the United States
and Canada where it's still spreading
every day and there's a lot of fear that
it can end up what's happening right now
in Italy and during this time of panic
and fear you know a lot of businesses a
lot of people's lives are gonna be
affected quite a bit and it's gonna take
a while maybe several months before you
know things kind of settle down a little
bit I believe and then just kind of get
contained and more stabilized to some
extent I mean we're still a year to a
year and a half away from a vaccine but
during this time during these moments
right now fear during these moments of
panic and the pessimism that's happening
right now if you're an investor if
you're prepared mentally emotionally and
financially then right now can actually
be one of the greatest opportunities of
your lifetime and I want to share with
you what I'm doing as an investor now
first I'm gonna say my heart goes out to
all people they've been affected by the
coronavirus I know it's a real threat
especially to those that are senior
those that have underlying health
conditions
you know those that are young and
healthy and have a strong immune system
it's not maybe a big of a threat to your
health and overall well-being but I'm
more concerned about the threat to be
honest with you in terms of how it's
affecting people's livelihoods their
jobs their finances businesses small
businesses especially being hit pretty
hard by this and so there's definitely a
huge consequence from this and
everyone's going to be affected by it in
some way shape or form but as an
investor when I put my investing hat on
I have to make the responsible decision
for my finances and you know right now
there's some great opportunity because
there's a lot of stocks that are
incredible blue chip companies that you
can buy at a discount and I want to
share with you my
approach in my mindset my philosophy now
a few things I want to share I put it a
few videos that might be relevant to
this that kind of set this up one is I
put out a video earlier this year
sharing what I'm doing and how I'm
preparing for the 2020 recession now
whether or not this is going to be a
recession I don't know I know right now
in the United States it's been you know
triggered as a bear market which is when
stocks dropped from 20% or more from the
all-time high and a correction typically
happens when a stock you know the sp500
drops 10% to 20% from all times all-time
highs and that typically only happens
every year or so a recession or a bear
market often only happens every decade
and so right now we're entering into
that territory and we haven't hit bottom
yet you know things are gonna get worse
there's a lot of businesses that are
gonna be affected by this and so if
you're prepared for this this can be a
great advantage for you in that video
that I put out sharing a little bit
about how I've been preparing for this
very moment and then I did put out
another video sharing how I'm preparing
for the coronavirus that video went more
into how I'm preparing mentally
emotionally with my health in my immune
system as well as financially and with
my business today I want to more address
how I'm investing my investing mindset
and approach and what I've been doing
over the last two weeks today and also
moving forward financially around this
and so I want to be a bit more specific
in this video to support some of you
that are looking at profit and take
advantage of this opportunity right now
in the same way that I am now the first
thing I'm going to say is that I've been
preparing for this for several years
I've been for the last few years
learning about investing preparing
mentally and emotionally in putting
money aside building a cash reserve
because I knew that a recession was
going to inevitably come every 10 years
every decade or so there's been a
recession and we've had such a long bull
market that it's just a matter of time
and I didn't predict the coronavirus I
don't think anybody did but you know I
knew there was going to be some sort of
correction or at least a recession
that's coming and so the first thing I
want to say is that I've been preparing
for this and I think
right now based on where you are
financially mentally and emotionally
it's a little bit challenging to take
advantage of something like this out of
reaction rather than being proactive
over the last few months or years to
make sure you're set up to take
advantage of this because to really take
advantage of opportunities like this
you've got to know what you're doing you
know and you don't want to make
decisions out of fear and you know not
having all the information and you know
being uneducated I'd say when it comes
to investing and so I want to kind of
plant that seed and also share a few
that what I share with you is not what
I'd recommend for you it's really what
I'm doing because I can't I'm not an
expert when it comes to investing I
can't tell you what to buy you're
responsible for that you're responsible
you know for how you spend your money
and how you manage your money I'm just
gonna share a few but what I'm doing and
you know what my approach has been and
you can kind of take from that if you'd
like so for me I'm a long-term investor
I always have a long term horizon and
the people that I follow like a Warren
Buffett you know he's a value investor
and he invest for the long-term and so I
really take a lot of his approach one
thing that Warren Buffett is known for
saying is that you want to be greedy
when people are fearful and you want to
be fearful when people are greedy and
right now when there's a lot of fear is
a lot of great opportunities Sir John
Sir John Templeton one of the greatest
investors of all time said that you can
make the most amount of wealth under
maximum pessimism when people are the
most scared when they're the most
fearful and if you had that approach a
mentality back in 2008 when the market
crashed and you had money put aside
you're prepared for it you could you
know change her life in so many ways and
created a lot of wealth and so for me
right now I've been preparing I missed
out on 2008 but since then I knew that I
was going to prepare to take advantage
of this because when you're young like
myself and maybe like yourself when
you're a millennial you're gonna have
quite a few recessions and moments like
this that will happen throughout your
lifetime and if you're smart and
proactive you can really take advantage
of it in a great way and for me right
now I'm looking to double or triple my
net worth as things kind of rebound over
the next year or so so my approach to
this guys is long term now right now I'm
buying I'm buying stocks
and I'm not selling anything I haven't
sold any stocks over the last few weeks
and I don't plan on selling anything
now when you invest in something
especially as a long-term holder like
myself I'm investing in blue chip
companies I'm investing in companies
that are large cap stocks that have you
know a market cap of some over a
trillion dollars like Apple and you know
Amazon for example but also others that
are in you know billions of dollars and
so these are companies that have been
around in some cases for decades and
will continue to be around that have an
optimistic horizon for so I'm not
investing I never really invest in
anything too risky I'm not investing in
penny stocks I'm not investing in
certain industries or sectors that are
very volatile I do have a small percent
of investments in cannabis and you know
a few sectors like that but for the most
part I'm investing in companies before
the coronavirus that can withstand
turbulent times like this and so I'll
show you some of the stocks that I've
been buying and you know some of the
sector's I've been investing in but
because of that I can I'm investing in
companies I don't need to sell because I
know and I'm optimistic they'll rebound
and they'll come out you know even
stronger than ever on the other side of
this and that right now there's a dip
and that I can actually buy a lot of
these companies that I've already
invested in and believe in I can get
them at a cheaper price I can get them
much less than where there were a few
weeks ago when they're at all-time highs
and so for me I have an up there's an
opportunity here if you have that long
term approach and you can hold and you
know warren buffett and you know
different investors like that they've
always been very optimistic on the US
economy that things always have gotten
better if you look at history you know
going through the Depression and right
you know a variety of recessions and
drops things have always come out and
recovered and gotten better and stronger
so I have that mindset the mentality
going into this and so right now I've
been buying more at a discounted price
and specifically some of the stocks that
I like and owned and buy first and
foremost is index funds ETFs exchange
traded funds and so this is always for
me one of the most secure ways to invest
because an index fund
is buying a group of stocks a group of
companies and so for example if I buy
the S&P 500 index and I can buy it
through a company like Vanguard Vanguard
is you know one of the leaders and index
funds in ETS founded by Jack Bogle
passed away not long ago but um they are
really great because they're kind of
like mutual funds but there's no active
management behind it they're passive and
because of that they have very low
expenses a very low expense ratio like
most Vanguard ETS have maybe a you know
point ten percent you know expense to it
and so it's an opportunity that I could
actually I don't have to buy an
individual stock and you know put all my
bit eggs in one basket I can be
diversified and buy one fund one ETF
that owns 500 stocks at top 500 the
United States and as those go up or down
you know my stock goes up or down based
on that but also they paid dividends as
well which is also great and so for me
the first things that I always build out
my positions of is the ETF's and so a
variety - Vanguard or I shares and
there's maybe a few others that you know
you can find out there but for me that's
building up my positions and you know
the sp500 so the stock symbol for that
would be vo o you know that's the ticker
for it that you can find in most
brokerage accounts even buying emerging
market ETF you know I buy certain
sectors so for example crude oil has
been taking a huge beating lately and so
there's want to think the symbol for
that is vde which is an ETF of oil
stocks to buying you know you can even
buy an ETF of the world market you know
sai invest in that I own ETS for real
estate investment trusts so REITs are
what they're known as and so there's a
variety there that I can buy to take
advantage of the real estate market
there's ETS that I own that are just
stocks that are dividend appreciation
stocks or high-yield dividend stocks and
so you can do more research on them but
I think you know when the most important
ones to own that Warren Buffett
recommends and you know even Tony
Robbins when he wrote the book money
master the
and unshakable which is a great starting
investing book that everybody should
start with I'll link by the way to
somebody is below in the description for
you guys money master the game
unshakable by Tony Robbins he went out
and interview the top 50 billionaire
investors and extracted from them the
most important things that they advise
people to do and how to how to invest
and so it's a great introductory book
and it preaches a lot about ETFs and
index funds and so the sp500 is you know
what Warren Buffett recommends that
everybody should own you know and just
kind of hold it you know over many many
years and so for me I'm building out my
positions there and then when it comes
to more individual stocks there's a few
ones that I like in different sectors
I've been investing in so first I like
invest in all financial cut all but most
of the big banks and financial companies
and so in Canada I'm invested in all the
top banks the top six big banks from TD
bank to bank and Nova Scotia to BMO to
CIBC to Royal Bank and then when it
comes to United States I'm also invested
in JP Morgan Chase and Bank of America
and Wells Fargo and Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley and Proctor and Proctor
and Gamble and prudential some heavily
invested there I also like to invest in
a lot of tech companies a lot of tech
stocks like Amazon Apple Facebook Google
Shopify you know those you know stocks
tend not to drop as much as others just
because you know a lot of people believe
that a lot of tech stocks can do well
Microsoft for example during this time
you know I know a lot of people been
buying zoom and Microsoft because a lot
of companies now they're doing their
meetings over Skype and zoom conference
calls rather than actually doing
conferences in person so those have been
going up to some extent or maybe zoom
but not Microsoft but also you know even
Google which owns YouTube you know
during times like that more people you
know when they don't want to go and
expose themselves to be at risk of
coronavirus they're gonna be at home and
they're gonna spend more time on YouTube
they're gonna spend more time on Google
they're gonna buy things online from
Shopify and Amazon so it actually opens
up a lot of opportunity because less
people now are going to be going to
retail stores
to malls and shopping centers less
people will go to Target and Costco and
Home Depot and Walmart and so there's
some great opportunity there was some
tech stocks and companies that I like
you know even to I invest in Salesforce
I invest in PayPal I invest in Oracle
there's a whole variety of tech ones
that I like and then I also invest in
MasterCard and Visa and American Express
and Disney and some airline companies
like Delta so there's a variety you know
I could I'm not gonna go through my
whole portfolio with you guys but
there's a lot of ones that I like that
again I'm not just investing in these
based on the headlines and the
coronavirus these are companies that
I've owned beforehand that I already
believe in and did research for that
that I believe are great companies
because you can't just reactionary buy
something just because it's dropped down
in value you want to actually buy and
invest in a good business that will
stand the test of time and actually
recover from this and end up better off
for it and there might be some sectors
that can take longer to recover from I
know right now you know airline
industries have been hit pretty hard in
hotels and cruise ships and some of
those might take a while before they
recover but I do know that often when
when this gets contained and things do
get better I believe are gonna have a
huge surge because often when people
have been isolating themselves at home
and not going out and depriving
themselves from travel and entertainment
then most often what happens is people
are gonna want to go to Disneyland
they're gonna want to go to the movies
again they're gonna want to go to Six
Flags Magic Mountain they're gonna want
to travel and go on a cruise and all of
that once this subsides
and we're still a ways away from that
and so if you have that long term
horizon and you don't need the money
okay which is important that all the
money that I'm investing I don't need it
I don't need it right now because I've
got a great business provides enough
cash flow I can support myself from that
I've saved enough money for an emergency
that I can live off of anything happens
to my business I've got that nest egg
put aside and I don't touch that money I
don't touch my savings I don't touch my
emergency fund I have another bucket of
money that I put aside for opportunities
like that and that's what I'm investing
right now in this and so when you're in
that position you're a lot better off
because I don't need to I'll never sell
these stocks because something happens
to my business and I need the money
that's not a good idea right these are
stocks and companies that I can hold for
a long period of time and I don't need
to touch it and there'll be volatility
but they'll be ups and downs it might be
a year or two before things really start
to recover but I know that when they do
recover and by the way I'm still making
dividends during this time right so the
lot of these stocks are paying dividends
during this time which is great I can
reinvest those and buy more at a cheaper
price but I know a year from now two
years from now three years from now
things will recover we'll have another
bull market that's what history has
always shown us and so I'm optimistic in
that outlook and because of this I can
create a lot of wealth when things do
recover in that way and benefit from a
huge way and especially when I had that
long-term horizon of 10 20 30 even 40
years from now because a lot of this
money is gonna support myself when I
retire one day and so that's my approach
that's my mentality of this I do buy a
bit of gold you know so I do have a
small percentage of my investments in
gold I have bought some oil stocks which
have been taking a hit ExxonMobil
Chevron but I think again you have to do
your research and make sure that you're
responsible for the decisions that you
make and that you know more about what
you're doing and one thing that I do is
part of my morning ritual because a lot
of people ask me how do I learn
investing and what not for me every
single morning when the markets open I'm
watching the news I'm on Yahoo Finance
Yahoo Finance's might go to I've got the
app on my phone I played the live
streams they do the live shows where
they interview different people
different experts and I learn a lot from
them and I get educated on what's going
on and then I also read a lot of
articles every day on Yahoo Finance just
to understand things and there's still a
lot of things I don't understand I'm not
you know sophisticated investor compared
to a lot of these other experts out
there but I try to learn as much as I
can every day and that helps to educate
me and and
and I just stay up-to-date with
everything else going on and I pay
attention to what Warren Buffett's doing
what Paul Tudor Jones is doing what Carl
Icahn is doing all the top investors to
see what they're doing as well now a lot
of you I've been asking me as well you
know in comments and whatnot
what kind of brokerage account would I
recommend how do I get started how do I
set up a brokerage account so if you
don't have a brokerage account and you
want to dabble a little bit get started
with investing now can be a good time to
I'll put some links below to some that
you can get set up with a lot of them
you can trade from your phone and
there's a lot that actually have zero
trading fees zero commissions because
some of them you have to pay a certain
amount of money for every trade that you
make there's others that are available
will they'll have maybe one dollar per
trade or even nothing in some cases and
there's even some brokerage accounts
right now they're actually giving new
people that sign up for account you know
two free stocks you know so that's can
be pretty exciting for you guys to get
some stocks just by signing up for an
account so again I'll link to those
below for you guys to check to check out
and set up an account with I know
there's certain options available for
those that are in the United States
others in Canada and then others based
on where you live in the world I'm not
quite sure you have to do some research
on that often going to your banks and
asking them as well can be great because
a lot of banks have brokerage accounts
available for their clients but maybe
I'll do some more videos that will talk
more about investing and how to invest
and how to get started with it so I'll
put some links below for you guys to
educate yourself and some resources that
I mentioned here and that I'd recommend
for getting started with this if you're
a member of my life mastery accelerator
program I've done some videos that go a
little bit more into getting started
with investing and even one that I'm
putting out on the top ten stocks that
I'd recommend for a beginner so if
you're a member of LMA life mastery
accelerator I'll put a link for that
below for you guys as well to join that
training so that's what I'm doing right
now and so for me I'm not panicking I'm
calm I've been waiting for this
opportunity even though my stocks my
investments have dropped significantly
the only time you lose money as if you
sell so I'm holding right now I have
that patience and I'm buying more of
these great companies that
for price and I'm optimistic things will
recover recover and get better and then
I'll prosper from this long term so
thank you guys so much for watching if
you guys enjoyed this give this a thumbs
up here on YouTube subscribe for more
videos and I'll see you guys again soon
god bless you and take care